well let's zoom into interoperability
interoperability is the ability to
exchange
the nft
across ecosystems right so if you buy an
nft a non-fundable token which could be
a deed for a house could be a digital
art could be anything if you buy it on
the ethereum network shouldn't you be
able to sell it and send it in some way
shape or form to the bitcoin network now
this is like long-term thinking right
but like an nft as a concept is just the
token
the blockchain technologies should be
able to accept
that token wrap it in some way hold that
information because it's just data at
the end of the day right we just need to
be able to accept and understand the
data that is inside the nft
on different chains in order to store
that data but it depends on how they
program that ecosystem how they program
that blockchain what the blocks can hold
right and so true interoperability
is like a long-term vision right but
interoperability could also mean other
things like the ability to hold it in
different wallets the ability to hold
the nft or like buy it on different
marketplaces
understanding and keeping that in mind
the next thing we would need is
immutability right
nft should be undevisable or indivisible
rather and should be unique
so there could be copies of an nft right
there you could have a hundred like
digital artworks that are the same exact
artwork but they're not divisible like
you can't split one and two you also
can't have a direct copy of one the
first one minted versus the last one
minted it could be a different serial
number and that could add to its unique
value they're not
unique in the sense that they can't be
the same thing but they're not the exact
same data right
so immutable means the blockchain
records the data in a way that makes it
hard to change okay so blockchain
already has this as a concept built into
the decentralized storage mechanism so
we're getting that out of the blockchain
technology
great
when we go further
for an nft ecosystem for true ownership
we need tradability we need the ability
to trade freely on open market places
and we're getting closer and closer to
this right so tradability is like being
able to put it on ebay right and then
sell it or put it on for like swap or
trade and with digital assets we need
that concept to be baked into the
ecosystem but we're trying to build
a holistic ecosystem
the game
fortnite or
cs go they want their own marketplace
and we're going to put interoperability
and tradeability well you don't have a
true interoperability because you're not
going to take a skin from cs go and play
it in fortnite and
we don't have true tradeability because
you're not going to swap a skin from
fortnite for
anything in the cs go if we get to true
nft space where we could have digital
assets that are completely unique and
then every one of these ecosystem these
games hook into it right
then they could take a digital asset
they could create a tradability
mechanism where they would evaluate the
value of a skin when you put in a skin
from a different game and you want to
trade it for
csgo coin if they ever made it and then
you could actually swap your skin for
currency in that game and you could
continue and then you have true value
retention of your digital assets to give
you an example right i spent over
a thousand euro on league of legends
throughout my 10 years playing it
all of those skins i don't know in a
single one i can't trade them for value
anywhere else i don't actually even
technically own them if i don't use my
account i don't really retain the value
of that digital asset
right it's just there it's just money
that i put in there but if we get to
true tradability space where league of
legends opts to turn its coin mechanism
you can purchase coins in the game into
a true token and then builds on the
blockchain and then builds against
multiple nft contracts the ability to
trade
right and then puts the skins
in league of legends
as an nft
then i could potentially trade my skins
on an open market place with other
people and i have some unique skins some
things you can't get right
and the value of those skins right
is next to zero because well they're
kind of locked away
right i don't have that tradability
aspect so very important things to think
about here when we zoom in then we have
liquidity transfer nfts into tokens for
liquidity just like i talked about when
you know tradability is swapping one nft
for another nft of
rather equal value or that's just the
concept of trading this liquidity is the
same but trading it into liquidity right
which could be another token right if i
wanted if i owned nft
like my skin
and i wanted to
liquidate it like in the real world you
go to a pawn shop and you'd be like here
take this and they'd give you cash in
return well what if i wanted ethereum or
bitcoin for my thing there could be
marketplaces where they would buy it off
of you and you could transfer it into
liquidity right you could sell your
skins instead of having to trade them
for equal value for other people right
and
could you trade them for equal value
well the trade would be up to the two
people trading to be like i'll take this
league of legend skin for the cs go skin
or whatever the case would be within the
tradability concept and the liquidity
concept you need to put a dollar value
to the nft
and it needs to be able to be purchased
whether that could be selling on a
marketplace or that could be selling to
the marketplace where they have a system
to buy it off you right liquidity is
just transferring into token ethereum
bitcoin cash usdt
whatever it may be
okay and then the final thing
for nfds to truly exist in the form that
they need to be ownership of a digital
asset
we need programmability
and what does programmability mean well
we need the ability to embed code in the
nft
to make it smarter if it's just
raw data right if it's just raw data
great we can hold the catalog of what
the thing is
but now if it can contain code right if
it can contain actual
things that can be executed now we can
make it much much smarter right we could
have it execute certain things at
certain times of the year
to yield something right whether it be
dividend in a stock right that's
quarterly thing that happens so the
programmability aspect makes it possible
for you to embed
things into the nft that make it a bit
smarter than just flat data